[SkyView name and links to interfaces and help]

                                 Batch Page

SkyView can now be run from the command line. Included below are two Perl
scripts (skvbatch, webquery) designed to run SkyView from the command line
prompt to better facilitate batch style execution on UNIX based machines.
These commands have not been tested on Macs, PCs, or VMS and would require
modification to work to set the socket connections properly. These scripts
are public domain and can be modified freely.

Note #1: If you have a copy of skvbatch dated before May 27, 1997, please
get the latest copy.

Note #2: The AF_INET and SOCK_STREAM values in webquery (lines 62 and 63)
are operating system dependent. Please check your socket.h file (usually
located in /usr/sys/include/sys or something similar) for the proper values
and update webquery accordingly.

Files:

(you may need to hold down the shift key when you click to download)

     skvbatch
     webquery

Calling sequence:

     skvbatch file=FILE [key=Value key=Value etc.]

Examples

    Example 1
        skvbatch file='example1.fits' VCOORD='+12 34, -10 23'  \
              SURVEY='Digitized Sky Survey'

    Example 2
        skvbatch file='example2.fits' VCOORD='hd184927' \
              SURVEY='Digitized Sky Survey' COLTAB='B-W Linear' \
              MAPROJ='Galactic'

    Example 3
    Catalog overlay only query (returns FITS file with ASCII table extension)
        skvbatch file='example3.fits' VCOORD='+12 34, -10 28'  \
                CATLOG='SAO STAR CATALOG' SFACTR='5'

    Example 4
    SAMPLE Perl script to do multiple queries
        #!/usr/bin/perl
        $i = 0;
        @array = ("'3c273'","'0 41, +41 5'","'crab nebula'",
                  "'14 21 23.2, -12 24.3'");
        foreach (@array) {
           $i++;
           $filename="example$i.gif";
           system("skvbatch VCOORD=$_ SURVEY='Digitized Sky Survey'
                CATLOG='HST guide stars (1.1)' RETURN=gif GRIDDD=yes
                PIXELX=450 PIXELY=450 file=$filename");
        }

Notes

Once executed, a FITS file is returned into the file specified on the
command line (or to standard output if no file is given).

Quotes are only necessary for values that contain blank spaces.

Parameters

The [key] keywords are used to set the values to be used by SkyView. Please
note that all keywords are case sensitive though their respective values are
not. Up until recently, all SkyView keywords were designed to be uppercase,
six character strings (with the addition of 3-D data this has changed,
though 3-D data is not currently supported with batch execution). Keywords
that require a name (as opposed to a numeric value) are hyperlinks to all
valid names for that keyword. Some keywords from SkyView are not included
since they do not affect the FITS file.

  REQUIRED:
    'VCOORD=[name/value]'  - coordinate position or name
    'SURVEY=[name]'        - survey name

  OPTIONAL:
    'SCOORD=[name]'        - coordinate system
    'MAPROJ=[name]'        - map projection
    'SFACTR=[value]'       - image size in degrees
    'EQUINX=[value]'       - equinox
    'PIXELX=[value]'       - image size pixels in x direction
    'PIXELY=[value]'       - image size pixels in y direction
    'CATLOG=[name]'        - catalog overlay name
    'SMOOTH=[value]'       - smoothing factor (1-11)
    'RESAMP=[name]'        - pixel resampling method
    'NAMRES=[name]'        - name resolver method
    'PXLCNT=[name]'        - image at pixel center (yes/no)
    'GRIDDD=[name]'        - grid overlay (yes/no)
    'COLTAB=[name]'        - color table name
    'IMCONT=[name]'        - survey name(s) to contour
    'IMREDD=[name]'        - true color (red) survey name
    'IMBLUE=[name]'        - true color (blue) survey name
    'IMGREE=[name]'        - true color (green) survey name

Bugs Reports and/or Suggestions

If you find any errors, or have comments, suggestions, or improvements
please drop a line to the

     SkyView staff at skyview@skys.gsfc.nasa.gov
     (Note: this link only works for browers that support the "mailto"
     feature).

   SkyView Home   |   Help   |   Survey Information   |   Non-Astronomers
                                 Interface
     Basic Interface   |   Advanced Interface   |   Java Interface   |
                      Customize Your SkyView Interface

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Direct all questions regarding SkyView to:
     skyview@skys.gsfc.nasa.gov
     (Note: this link only works for browsers that support the "mailto"
     feature).

SkyView was developed and is maintained under NASA ADP Grant NAS5-32068 with
P.I. Thomas A. McGlynn under the auspices of the High Energy Astrophysics
Science Archive Research Center (HEASARC) at the GSFC Laboratory for High
Energy Astrophysics.

We gratefully acknowledge the support of NASA and the contributors of
SkyView data surveys.

Maintained by Laura McDonald

Last updated: February 12, 2002.
